---
layout: post
title: First blog post!
---

I graduated from UC Irvine with a Economics degree but upon graduation realized I had very little interest in the prospective jobs for my major. My friend who had graduated with a CS degree also from the same college very casually pitched me the idea of iOS development as he told me about his new job during graduation. I had always been an apple fan from a very young age; my first computer was one of the original iMAC desktops in 1st grade. I’ve always been fascinated with software’s potential to provide entertainment as well as improve the quality of life of people. I learned how to put together a desktop in high school and have always been obsessed with the latest and greatest gadgets throughout my youth. In my later years in college I really became interested in Apple’s hardware and like many Americans fell in love with their philosophy in quality of user experience and developing life changing software. It was to no surprise that their environment for developers mirrored this philosophy and I fell in love with the ease of their IDE along with strong quality control in their application submission process. Before I could really get my bearings rolling in iOS I realized I lacked much of the fundamentals that programmers with 4 year computer science degrees had. To help bring me up to speed during my first job I hired a tutor who was a senior CS major at UCI to teach me twice a week for the duration of a year in Java. Then after I transitioned into my first programming job as a Junior developer in iOS for ChowNow and was very fortunate to have my good friend be a mentor and guide me along the way. I really am proud of how far I’ve made it without a traditional educational background in programming. I’ve really dedicated “blood, sweat and tears” to get to where I’m at as a programmer. A lot of these coding bootcamps and academies pitch over exaggerated realities of “becoming a programmer in just 10 weeks”; this simply isn’t the case for the average person. The reality is that it takes a special type of person who can persevere and pick themselves up from failure after failure as this will be very common in the beginning of your programming career. But as my friend/mentor told me “Alex programming is like the matrix, it will click one day where you will start to understand the writing on the wall.” He was right. I am no one special and am a testament of how far hard work and an iron will can get you. The learning curve is steep and it will be a long road but if you want to be in a field that improves the quality of peoples’ lives and be compensated well this may be the road for you. 
